and there's really interesting research
if you look at research on incels
is that there's an online radicalization
process
and this is not actually it's not really
anyone's fault it's just interesting
because if you think about youtube right
if i watch a video on
youtube on incels what is youtube going
to suggest to me
so hi dr k do you have any advice on
female in cells i'm in my late 20s and
have never had a boyfriend this has
caused me to develop severe self-esteem
issues
i've heard you say that women are the
ones who pick the partners what
and that women have to deal with too
much attention and harassment
i have the opposite problem of most
women this makes me feel almost
sub-human
i also feel like i'm running out of time
to experience a romantic relationship
if no one wanted to be with me in the
teens and 20s
what chance do i have in my 30s and 40s
so this is a great question
so one of the really interesting things
so we're actually writing a paper at
healthygamer on insults
and we've been doing a lot of research
on this topic because i think it's
something that a lot of people
suffer from and struggle with and i
think a lot of our
you know we try to support the incel
community for lack of a better term i
mean i know that sounds kind of scary
but
what i mean by that is like we try to
help people understand that they have
intrinsic value and that a lot of the
sort of in-cell kind of
thinking and belief system may not be
entirely correct
so there are a couple of things that i
want to point out the first is that
generally speaking incel
appears to be like refers to men right
so if you look at the published
literature
on in cells they tend to focus entirely
on men
but it's been our experience that
they're actually like female people who
identify with the term incel so i think
that's a huge problem
in like the published literature in the
way that people look at things
so i think that you know this sort of
belief or idea that you're an
incel and will never find a romantic
relationship is not gender specific
it may certainly be more prevalent in
men i'm not quite sure i you know i'd
really have to see statistics around
that but i
generally speaking makes sense to me
because i tend to see
or hear more about male in cells i i
don't know if i i mean if i said that
women pick their partners i i know that
that's a lot of like the thinking of
incels is that women there's a sexual
marketplace and whatnot
i mean i generally speaking so if i said
that in the past i you know it's i
didn't mean it like that
um and it's my experience that generally
speaking when you're picking a partner
like
both people pick right so the whole idea
behind a partnership is that it's like a
mutual arrangement
and it's not like one person is picking
and the other person isn't
i understand that that's been some
people's experiences and some people can
definitely get into the sort of
relationship where
there's a power dynamic so don't get me
wrong there that's definitely possible
but i think that generally speaking
if you think about a relationship it's
like the whole point is that there's a
relation right so there's like
both people are sort of agreeing to have
this relationship
and so i think the problem here is that
if we listen to what this person says
they're saying women are the ones who
get to pick and i i
have the opposite problem so i'm not
like most women therefore i feel
subhuman
so if you stop and think about it for a
second what you see is that the feeling
of sub-human
is rooted in the idea
that most people are one way
and i am the other way so it it's
interesting because like
where where do you get the idea that
most women women are one way and that
you're a different way
so i think there's also something that's
that's very common for people which is
that they feel like they're running out
of time to experience a romantic
relationship
and that makes sense like the time you
know the hourglasses is kind of going
and the further that you
go the the worse off you are so i want
to share with you guys a couple of the
things that we've discovered through our
research i mean it's not
like this stuff is sort of known already
but like this is what we piece together
is maybe a better way to put it
so the first is that when people are in
cells that
it's primarily like sort of a
psychological thing so it's not actually
like
it's a belief system so here's what
happens with an insult
so they start out with usually some kind
of adverse
experience or the idea of a missed
milestone
so they it's not even like necessarily
something bad happened to them but they
turn 18 or they turn 21 or they graduate
from college and it starts with this
sort of idea that like
i was supposed to have done something by
a particular time
there's a missed milestone that's where
it starts
or some kind of rejection or negative
experience and then what's really
changed now is that we can sort of
engage with communities that will
actually like reinforce this idea
so if you engage with a community where
everyone else has missed milestones and
none of the people have sort of
made it out of inseldom it's going to
color
your perspective on the world and so
then what becomes a personal experience
that maze
maybe is actually changeable starts to
feel like universal truth
and there's really interesting research
if you look at research on incels
is that there's a online radicalization
process
and this is not actually it's not really
anyone's fault it's just interesting
because if you think about
youtube right if i watch a video on
youtube on incels
what is youtube going to suggest to me
so you have these content platforms that
are trying to do their best
to make their content the most appealing
to you
and if you watch one incel video then
you're going to get populated with like
a second one and if you watch the second
one then you're gonna get populated with
four
and six and ten so there's this online
radicalization effect which is probably
has something to do with the algorithms
of content platforms
so it's not like people are purposely
seeking this stuff out maybe some of
them are
but if you look there's this online
drift so you start out with sort of like
the gateway drug and then you kind of
gradually like what happens is these
platforms will push you
towards more radicalizing content so
this is why you see
radicalization in general amongst
politics and all kinds of other things
so it has a really interesting effect on
your psychology
and so psychologically what starts to
happen is your experience becomes
incredibly validated
and now we get to something else about
thin cell communities that it's
incredibly validating right like this
person feels like
they're sub-human and so it can feel
actually really good to be like in a
community with other people who feel
subhuman because they're people who get
you
right they're your people and so like
this is this is a world that rejects you
and so you can find a community that
accepts you the way you are and says
yeah it sucks
it's not your fault there's a sexual
marketplace value
your jaw line isn't manly enough you
were born with the beta gene
it's not your fault don't feel that way
about yourself it's sad it's true
it's incredibly validating and
and so there's this weird kind of
combination of online radicalization
along with like warm open arms which
then gets people to really think this
way right and then you start thinking
that way
it's very emotionally like gratifying
then you can start to
believe these things and it's not it's
not wrong to believe them because that's
what your brain is designed to do
if you're hanging out with a thousand
people that all tell you the same thing
like you're gonna start believing it
it's like
how it works the short answer is that
you've still got a chance like
absolutely right so the only time you
don't have a chance is when you stop
trying
that's really the only thing that will
determine when you don't have a chance
i've worked with tons of incels
and my experience has been that what's
really at the core of it
is the self-esteem it's not that like
and it becomes a self-fulfilling
prophecy because
once certain experiences cause you to
have a self-esteem
that feeling of being sub-human is going
to affect
every romantic interaction that you have
and so it's it's overcoming that
internal feeling of self-esteem or
feeling subhuman
which will then naturally create alter
the way that you engage in relationships
so oddly enough i think people think
about being an incel and the cure to
being an incel
is getting laid or finding a partner
and so then you're no longer an insult
but we've even had people on stream who
have like had relationships and they're
like i'm still an insult
so it's bizarre because people think
that becoming no longer being an incel
is about an outward change but it's not
about an outward change it's about an
internal change
and we've seen that we've seen people
who like actually have relationships
have women that persistently ask them
out and they still feel like an insult
and so it's not it has nothing to do
with the outside you being an in-cell
has nothing to do with like
with the way that people treat you it
has everything to do with the way that
you perceive yourself
right because who like is there like a
you know crowd of people that's like
running around and like calling you an
insult no
it's an identity that you take on
and so the cool thing is that if it's an
identity that you take on
it's also within your power to no longer
have it now it's not easy i'm making it
sound easy it's certainly not easy it
takes a lot of work
right so it requires a lot of like
effort and self-reflection
and really like digging to the bottom of
your self-esteem so i'd say that the
real approach is to like
tackle the some scar of low self-esteem
and this is where i'd even
say like you know when did you start
feeling like you were an incel because i
don't think
it's like has nothing to do with your
20s it's probably happened a long time
ago
may even have nothing to do when did you
start feeling subhuman it may not have
even been in your teen years like you
may have had some kind of experience in
childhood where you really really felt
like sub-human and so that feeling of
sub-humanness which you carry with you
then finds a new set of clothes which is
in seldom
and so it like puts that on so i think
there's absolutely hope for you you just
have to be willing to try
and i know that you try really really
hard it's just you have to try in sort
of a different way
so i'd say forget about the incel forget
about the relationships
and focus a little bit about what's
really chipped away at your self-esteem
what's chip
what's contributed this idea that you're
sub-human and work on like building
confidence and spending time with nature
and like things like that
okay hope that's helpful and good luck
to you